doc: matter: Add TF-M to Matter documentation and HW requirements (#18321)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/protocols/matter/end_product/security.rst

   :local:
   :depth: 3

Nordic Matter samples leverage security features supported in the |NCS| that can be divided into four major categories:

> * Security features

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Secure processing environment
```
I think security features might be a bit too general.

* Cryptography
* Trusted storage
* Securing production devices

In the following sections you will learn more details about each listed category.

> Security features
> *****************

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Secure processing environment
*****************************
```

> In matter samples depending on the board, you can use some of the :ref:`security` features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depending on the board, Matter samples can use a secure processing environment.
```
Leading with the board since the subheading also starts with it.

nRF54L with Trusted Firmware-M (TF-M)
=====================================

> Matter samples based on the nRF54L SoC support :ref:`app_boards_spe_nspe` with Trusted Firmware-M (TF-M).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the nRF54L SoC, Matter samples support :ref:`app_boards_spe_nspe` with Trusted Firmware-M (TF-M).
```

All cryptographic operations within the Matter stack are performed by utilizing the `Platform Security Architecture (PSA)`_ API and executed in the secure TF-M environment.

> The secure materials like Matter Session keys, DAC private key and other keys, are stored in the TF-M secure storage utilizing the :ref:`tfm_encrypted_its` module.
> Matter samples utilize the full TF-M library, so you cannot use the :ref:`tfm_minimal_build` version of TF-M.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The secure materials like Matter Session keys, DAC private key and other keys, are stored in the TF-M secure storage using the :ref:`tfm_encrypted_its` module.
Matter samples use the full TF-M library, so you cannot use the :ref:`tfm_minimal_build` version of TF-M.
```

To build a Matter sample with the TF-M support add the ``/ns`` variant to the board target.
For example, use the following command for the nRF54L15 SoC:

.. code-block:: console

>    west build -b nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp/ns

Reviewer 2: This is a very basic information that IMO should be covered by a cross-link, as suggested in my first review.
If there were additional parameters in the command, providing it here has some value, but duplicating the very basic build command and ignoring VSC extension, when the Building page covers both, is in my opinion a detriment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To build a Matter sample with the TF-M support, :ref:`build <building>` for the :ref:`board target <app_boards_names>` with the ``/ns`` variant.
```
As suggested in  https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/pull/18321#discussion_r1820995047

> To configure partition layout, configure the :file:`pm_static_nrf54l15dk_nrf54l15_cpuapp_ns.yml` file that is available in each sample directory.

Reviewer 2: This file is used automatically and there is no need to invoke it manually in the build command, correct?

Author: Yes, but if users want to change the partition layout this is a hint for them to edit this file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To configure partition layout for your application, you can edit the :file:`pm_static_nrf54l15dk_nrf54l15_cpuapp_ns.yml` file that is available in each sample directory.
```

   :local:
   :depth: 3

Nordic Matter samples leverage security features supported in the |NCS| that can be divided into four major categories:

* Trusted Execution Environment
* Cryptography
* Trusted storage
* Securing production devices

In the following sections you will learn more details about each listed category.

Trusted Execution Environment
*****************************

In Matter samples, you can use two types of Trusted Execution Environments (TEE) to provide a secure environment for the execution of security-sensitive code, depending on the SoC.
The Trusted Firmware-M (TF-M) is dedicated to the nRF54L SoC series, while the nRF54H SoC series can use the Secure Domain.
All cryptographic operations are performed using the PSA Cryptography API.

nRF54H Secure Domian
====================

The secure domain is a dedicated domain that executes a pre-compiled, Nordic Semiconductor-signed firmware component.
This firmware allows the execution of all secure operations in a separate domain, providing a secure environment for security-sensitive Matter code.

> In Matter samples, we use security services exposed by the secure domain to perform all cryptographic operations during commissioning to Matter and while operating in the Matter network.

Author: The same word was used in the architecture description in this context, so I guess it is correct. :)

All keys used by Matter, such as session keys, DAC private keys, and other keys, are stored in the secure domain's secure space and are isolated from local domains.

To learn more about the secure domain, see the :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_architecture_cpu` user guide.

nRF54L Trusted Firmware-M (TF-M)
================================

Matter samples based on the nRF54L SoC support the Trusted Firmware-M (TF-M) library.
All cryptographic operations within the Matter stack are performed by utilizing the PSA Cryptography API and executed in the secure TF-M environment.

> Application and Matter codes are executed in the non-secure application, whereas MCUboot and TF-M are executed in the secure part.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Application and Matter codes are executed in the Non-Secure Processing Environment, whereas MCUboot and TF-M are executed in the Secure Processing Environment (see :ref:`app_boards_spe_nspe` for more information).
```

> Both parts are isolated from each other, providing a secure environment for the execution of security-sensitive code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This isolation of firmware provides security for the execution of security-sensitive code.
```
Adapting a little from the linked page. Verify that I worded this correctly.

Author: `This isolation of firmware parts provides security` maybe in this way?

The secure materials like Matter Session keys, DAC private key and other keys, are stored in the TF-M secure storage utilizing the :ref:`tfm_encrypted_its` module.

> Matter samples utilize the full TF-M library, so you cannot use the :ref:`tfm_minimal_build` TF-M build variant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Matter samples utilize the full TF-M library, so you cannot use the :ref:`tfm_minimal_build` version of TF-M.
```
Link text is "Minimal build" so this works better than repeating "build variant".

> To build a Matter sample with the TF-M support add the ``/ns`` suffix to the build target, for example use the following command for nRF54L15 SoC:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To build a Matter sample with the TF-M support add the ``/ns`` suffix to the build target.
For example, use the following command for the nRF54L15 SoC:
```

.. code-block:: console

   west build -b nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp/ns

> To configure partition layout, configure the :file:`pm_static_nrf54l15dk_nrf54l15_cpuapp_ns.yml` which is available in each sample directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure partition layout, configure the :file:`pm_static_nrf54l15dk_nrf54l15_cpuapp_ns.yml` file that is available in each sample directory.
```

> To read more about the TF-M partitioning see the :ref:`ug_tfm_partition_alignment_requirements` user guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To read more about the TF-M partitioning, see :ref:`ug_tfm_partition_alignment_requirements`.
```

> While using TF-M, the application partition size and available RAM space for application is lower than without TF-M.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While using TF-M, the application partition size and available RAM space for the application is lower than without TF-M.
```

> You must keep it in mind and calculate the available space for the application partition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must keep this in mind and calculate the available space for the application partition.
```

The recommended values are provided in the :ref:`ug_matter_hw_requirements_layouts` section.

In addition, you can store the DAC private key in the KMU storage while using TF-M.

> To learn how to do it see the :ref:`matter_platforms_security_dac_priv_key_kmu` section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn how to do it, see the :ref:`matter_platforms_security_dac_priv_key_kmu` section.
```

   :local:
   :depth: 3

Nordic Matter samples leverage security features supported in the |NCS| that can be divided into four major categories:

> * Trusted Execution Environment

Reviewer 2: There is nothing about "Trusted Execution Environment as a security feature" in the NCS based on https://docs.nordicsemi.com/bundle/ncs-latest/page/nrf/security.html . Should there be some information, @mia-ko ?

Author: Ok, there is no something like that. So how can I name it? I need a name for both the nRF54H20 secure domain and TF-M on nRF54L15. Both of them are isolated from the application firmware.

Reviewer 2: Yes, that's why I poked @mia-ko and added @FrancescoSer and @annwoj to the PR so that we can see if this needs a mention on the Security page, mention in the device guides, or no mention at all (in which case this section can stay, but probably not with the current name or description, because it could be interpreted as TEE is a Matter-only feature in the NCS).

Reviewer 3: Instead of using Trusted Execution Environment, why not align on using the terms that are already in use in our docs (SPE)?
Secure processing environment is a standard term in the PSA Security model.

Author: @greg-fer I will remove the nRF54H20 part for now. For this release, we need to describe TF-M only, and this commit it related to it.

* Cryptography
* Trusted storage
* Securing production devices

In the following sections you will learn more details about each listed category.

Trusted Execution Environment
*****************************

In Matter samples, you can use two types of Trusted Execution Environments (TEE) to provide a secure environment for the execution of security-sensitive code, depending on the SoC:

* nRF54L Series devices can use Trusted Firmware-M (TF-M).

> * nRF54H Series devices can use the Secure Domain.

Reviewer 2: Cross-links missing.

Author: I guess there is no cross-link to the Secure Domain..

Reviewer 2: https://docs.nordicsemi.com/bundle/ncs-latest/page/nrf/app_dev/device_guides/working_with_nrf/nrf54h/ug_nrf54h20_architecture_cpu.html#secure_domain

> All cryptographic operations are performed using the PSA Cryptography API.

Reviewer 2: Cross-link missing.

Reviewer 2: Yes.

nRF54H Secure Domain
====================

The Secure Domain is a dedicated domain that executes a pre-compiled, Nordic Semiconductor-signed firmware component.
This firmware allows the execution of all secure operations in a separate domain, providing a secure environment for security-sensitive Matter code.

In Matter samples, we use security services exposed by the Secure Domain to perform all cryptographic operations during commissioning to Matter and while operating in the Matter network.
All keys used by Matter, such as session keys, DAC private keys, and other keys, are stored in the Secure Domain's secure space and are isolated from local domains.

> To learn more about the secure domain, see the :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_architecture_cpu` user guide.

Reviewer 2: Do we really need to duplicate information from the nRF54H user guides? Can't we just link to it in the bullet point above and add information about Matter specifics ("In Matter samples...") in the bullet point entry?

nRF54L Trusted Firmware-M (TF-M)
================================

Matter samples based on the nRF54L SoC support the Trusted Firmware-M (TF-M) library.
All cryptographic operations within the Matter stack are performed by utilizing the PSA Cryptography API and executed in the secure TF-M environment.
Application and Matter codes are executed in the Non-Secure Processing Environment, whereas MCUboot and TF-M are executed in the Secure Processing Environment (see :ref:`app_boards_spe_nspe` for more information).
This isolation of firmware parts provides security for the execution of security-sensitive code.
The secure materials like Matter Session keys, DAC private key and other keys, are stored in the TF-M secure storage utilizing the :ref:`tfm_encrypted_its` module.

> Matter samples utilize the full TF-M library, so you cannot use the :ref:`tfm_minimal_build` version of TF-M.

Reviewer 2: Same comment as above -- link + include info in the bullet point entry? Why duplicate sections when we can link?

> To build a Matter sample with the TF-M support add the ``/ns`` suffix to the build target.
> For example, use the following command for the nRF54L15 SoC:
> 
> .. code-block:: console
> 
>    west build -b nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp/ns

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To build a Matter sample with the TF-M support, :ref:`build <building>` for the :ref:`board target <app_boards_names>` with the ``/ns`` variant.
```
It's a BOARD target, not a build target (``-T``). Also, variant, not suffix: https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/blob/main/doc/nrf/app_dev/board_support/board_names.rst?plain=1#L36
